Today we continued yesterday's task of designing a new case for the fluorometer to tackle several issues.

Adding to yesterday's design considerations, we arrived at the conclusion that we should aim to make the distances between the optical components as small as possible to improve on the signal to noise ratio.

We spent the morning catching up Robert, who arrived today, discussing different design parameters and options and settled on a design.
The LED, the sample, and the detector will be in the plane of the "table" with a 90 degree angle between the three parts, following the common approach for fluorescence measurements (https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluoreszenzspektroskopie).
In the previous iteration, the light was coupled into the sample from below. Due to the different shape of our new sample vessels, this approach led to "crowding" of the parts, so we decided to couple in the light from the side, and place the detector at a 90 degree angle.

We settled on a design of two nested boxes. The inner box incorporates the LED, sensor, and filters. The sample tube is inserted into this inner box from above. The outer box holds the microcontroller board and ensures isolation from ambient light.

We did some crude ray tracing calculations and found that the lens maybe is not neccesary when the detector is close to the sample, so we decided to try leaving the lens out altogether and placing the sensor such that it almost touches the sample tube.

The laser cut plans are in files case/cad\_files/outer\_box.svg and case/cad\_files/inner\_box.svg

We also started working on porting the code to the NodeMCU, since we want to move to that platform from the previous Arduino one. We got the NodeMCU to recognize the sensor, but for reasons yet unknown, we're not getting any readings yet.


