# Plan for the day

During our group's morning meeting, we set the following tasks for the day:

* Finish CAD files
* Next iteration of design talk
* Fitting for LED
* Design a measurement scheme
* Research (non-)linearity of our light sensor TSL2591, and of the fluorescent dye systems we're using
* NodeMCU software
* Schedule visit to fablab for laser-cutting

# What we did today

## Cellphone-based approach

TODO Robert

The cellphnoe bases approach aims to further cut the costs and make the device an extension of the smartphone. Its also a nice example for wht you can make your smartphone do.
The basic idea is to hijack the audio jack in/output. the normal smartphone headset has a jack with 4 pins. Left and right ear audio output the microphone input and a common ground.

Prior to the workshop i soldered a light dependent resistor parallel to the microphone. with a audio spectral analising app it is possible to meassure the frequency of flickering light. 

To make the system independent one would need to power an LED via te phones usb port ans switch it with a frequency given by the audio output.
The circiut i had in mind for that can be seen in figure (schaltung 1)
However, the transistor did not seem to switch with the voltage supplied by the audio output. Another rpossibility would be an op-Amp...
To make it work i devised this circuit in figure 2. It basically supplies the LED with a current of roughly 3 V and on top of that the voltage supplied by the audio output. So the resulting voltage has an offset of 3 V and oscillates between 2.5 and 3.5 with the frequency given by the audio output. (note: i had no means of measuring it and this is a little speculative) 
Due to the strongly nonlinear behavoir of the LED the light is very well modulated and can be measured with the photoresitor soldered to the microphone. 



## Measurement scheme

TODO Ale
https://www.wikihow.com/Do-Serial-Dilutions

## Non-linearity and gotchas in fluorescence DNA quantification

While investigating possible causes for what looked like it might be a nonlinear effect in DNA concentration measurement, we came across the paper [Pitfalls of DNA Quantification Using DNA-Binding Fluorescent Dyes and Suggested Solutions by Nakayama et al](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4777359/).
It describes some interesting effects when diluting DNA samples using distilled water, which in some cases can lead to underestimation of the actual DNA concentration. The authors determined that this effect is related to the dilution of cations, and can be influenced by adding NaCl to the distilled water before mixing with the DNA sample. We noted this as something to keep in mind when setting up our dilution series later.

## NodeMCU software

Previous iterations of the fluorometer used an Arduino as the microprocessor platform. We wanted to try and move this to a NodeMCU platform to implement a device with a WiFi interface.

Lisa adapted the previously used Arduino code to the NodeMCU. Not many changes were necessary, except to check that the values read from the light sensor made were comparable to those obtained when using the Arduino. The other changes were related to the WiFi capability:

1. Having the device set up an AP. This will probably be changed later: with an eye towards future uses, where you might have several pieces of equipment with a WiFi interface, it seems impractical to have each of them set up an AP. Instead, it would be better to have multiple devices on the same WiFi network so you don't have to switch between different WiFi networks every time you want to use a different device in a workflow.
2. Having the device run a minimal HTTP server. It would be more precise to say that the device listens on port 80/tcp for incoming connections and responds to a small number of well-defined HTTP requests.
3. Set up a few endpoints that the "HTTP server" will respond to. Right now, these are: `/`, `/calibrate/1`, `/calibrate/2`, and `/measure`. The functionality behind these endpoints is not yet implemented.

## CAD files

The CAD files are done now, so we are ready to go cut the case. The current version is still way bigger than necessary, because Alessandro likes big cases.

## Planning the trip to MakerStation to laser-cut the case

There are four teams who need to laser-cut something.
I got in touch with Felix Holm from MakerStation to ask how we would got about accessing the laser cutter for several hours. I have not heard back from him yet, so it's not entirely clear whether we can cut the case tomorrow.
