We started by writing out the tasks that we would like to accomplish in the next two weeks. We estimated the time each task would take and realized that we may have more work than we can complete in the timeframe of the workshop, so we prioritized a bit. Note that we made this assessment after positing that everything takes at least twice as long as you inititally estimated.

The mandatory tasks are as follows:

* Design next case version for 0.2ml PCR tubes as sample vessels - 4h
* Produce CAD files for the new case version - 4h
* Cut and assemble the case - 2h
* Design a UI/UX - 1h
* Implement UI - 8h
* Test with extracted DNA - 4h
* Thorough documentation - 16h

The optional tasks are as follows:

* Cut glass filters - 2h
* Test different filters - 2h
* Test different dyes - 2h
* NodeMCU software - 8h
* Design a measurement scheme - 2h
* Figure out (non)linearity of sensor/measurements - ?

We decided to start working today on the task "Design next case version for 0.2ml PCR tubes as sample vessels". The morning was taken up by introductory talks by all teams, getting set up, etc. This left us with about five hours to work on the task.

Modificaions will modify the design minding the following aspects:

* Simplicity while assembling
* Stability of the optical parts
* Lining up uf the optical parts
* Smarter way to fit the parts on the wood board to lasercut
* New sample vessel: the 0.2 ml PCR tube

In the next we will experiment a new way to insert opical parts from above, making them easy to remove. It consists in a some slit on the side as large as the dept of the material. The optical part is mounted on a holder, which has an hook that fits perfectly into the slit. In this way we make it easier to change optical parts during the experiment, if needed.

One of the design parameters, particularly concerning the alignment of the optical componens, is the sample volume. We decided to design the device for a sample volume of 50ul, even though the tubes hold 200ul. Our reasoning is that we want a device that requires only small volumes of sample, because the sample mixed with dye might not be available for downstream use of the DNA, for example because the dye would inhibit library preparation or sequencing.

During the day, we did a lot of measuring of components, making design sketches on paper, and discussing design decisions (which we will document later once we have completed this task). Particular challenges for today's task mostly lay in getting the alignment of sample and optical components right, and translating this into a 2D projection for the laser-cut parts.

At the end of the day, we did not even come close to completing today's task, which confirms our initital assessment that everything takes at least twice as long as first thought.
