# Plan for the day

* Robert & Alessandro: Catch up on documentation for previous days
* Develop NodeMCU code further
* Alessandro: Continue working on assembly instructions
* Add datasheets to repo
* Add BOM to repo

# What we did today

## Small tasks

* Added datasheets to the repo
* Caught up on documentation

## NodeMCU code

Work on the NodeMCU-specific code took up more time than expected. Since it was mostly just work to change the way of interacting with the device (from serial port to WiFi), I decided to put these changes on the backburner and prioritize taking measurements. So as of now, we are working with the previous version that is controlled via input on the serial port and also outputs the measurements on it.

A bug in the sensor code showed up through strange and unexpected readings while doing measurements on text marker dye. I had a suspicion that this bug was linked to the gain adjustment, and confirmed that, but did not have time today to resolve it.

## Measurements with text marker dye

We did a series of measurements on text marker dye by making a two-fold serial dilution of text marker dye with tap water. All in all, we ended up with 16 different concentrations, labeled S1 (undiluted text marker dye) through S16, each with a volume of 50ul. The text marker dye, when not sufficiently diluted, threw up a lot of bubbles, so we disregarded the samples S1 through S5 and only measured S6 through S16.
We also measured a sample with just water to give us a first baseline. (Note that our true baseline will bye fluorescent dye plus water, but just water was an interesting first estimate).

These measurements had two main results:

* There is a bug in the sensor code for the TSL2591 version
* The cellphone version actually performs very well, on par with the TSL2591 version. Yay!

## Modifications to the TSL2591-version case

We made a small modification to this case by taking apart the sample holder and painting it with black Edding on the inside, to reduce the amount of reflected light. This did seem to make a difference. We took readings from just the empty box (no PCR tube inserted). For the unpainted version, the sensor readings were at ~3900, for the painted version they went down to ~1100.
